# 2680192-ma1805-project
Available at: https://alaslett.github.io/2608192-ma1805-project/


**An interactive Project exploring the relationship between nature and tech**
My project focuses on the relationship between nature and tech where both opposites are forced to live alongside each other. I took inspiration from an area I go on walks, where there is a dramatic line of telephone towers amongst the natural landscape. This made me think about the architecture behind blending technology into nature where we often see artifical trees embedded into nature in order to disguise technology. Photographer Dilon Marsh photographs this well in his 'Invasive Spaces' project available at : https://www.dillonmarsh.com/invasive-species. I took inspiration from this and decided to dramatically create abstract leaves (represented by the circle cluster) attatched to the telephone tower to demonstrate how technology dramatacially impacts nature. I wanted the telephone tower to look like the trunk of the tree. 

A further message I wanted convey with this artwork was how it is easy for us to view the world through our screens hence why I chose to include a laptop presenting the image instead of the image itself.The expanding image is to connotate towards being engrossed in technology and sometimes feeling like we are in the place that we see on our screens. The phone behind the cluster of leaves further enhances how technology is always around us and somewhat inevitable even when we are in natural environments. I wanted to make this image more dramatic by including an expanding image of a city on the phone screen to foreshadow the future of the forest if technology continues to take over. 

The functional elements of my image include mouse interaction, where the images expand and text disappears when a mouse or key is pressed. In addition there is mouse sensitivity where the circles repel against the mouse which will reveal the phone underneath. I used a range of variables and arrays in order to tell the code when I wanted each aspect to activate. 

My original idea was to create a scroll art where the user would go through a forest of developing technology where the forest would become more industrialised as technology developed and the end would present the forest as a city with the latest technology. I thought about the mechanics behind this and considered 'Boiling Point Dave Pagurek' as a starting point as I enjoyed the zoom aspect of the artwork which could have worked for my origional idea. I may consider this mechanic in the future. 
As previously mentioned, I took inspiration from photographer Dilon Marsh and his project ' Invasive spaces'. I also was inspired by week 4's lectures focusing on the creation of multiple shapes which helped me consider how I would approach creating multiple circles in a simple way.I took inspiration from a range of different videos specifically from the coding train which helped me to fix some coding problems and also Tom who helped me massively to approach the multiple circles task as after etensive rese4arch, I was still unsure how I would achieve this. After using Tom's example however, I decided to take inspiration from https://editor.p5js.org/chriswmartin/sketches/XAqi75tq8 which helped me to create a group of circles which would be repelled by the mouse.

**Inspiration: **
Boiling Point- Dave Pagurek available at: https://p5js.org/sketches/2689119/
https://editor.p5js.org/chriswmartin/sketches/XAqi75tq8
https://www.dillonmarsh.com/invasive-species
The coding train-- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fBqaA7zRO58 , youtube.com/watch?v=40Me1-yAtTc&list=PLRqwX-V7Uu6aFcVjlDAkkGIixw70s7jpW&index=5

With this project I encountered soo many hurdles that did slow down my process. The main one was creating multiple circles in one area of the screen. This was a later development of my project which meant it affected my previous work when it didn't work. I origionally asked for Tom's help in order to get a baseline as to how I would be able to achieve this, which I found extremely helpful. With Tom's code I was able to make it my own by changing the colour and creating multiple groups of leaves and positioning them in the shape of a group of leaves on the tree. After achieving this I thought about how I could make the circles repel the mouse so that the phone would be revealed. I started this by using the code from https://p5js.org/sketches/2689119/ and used this with Toms code to establish this concept. This however did not work and messed with the mechanics of the moving image and disappearing text which meant I had to break everything down and focus on getting the leaves to work. In short I ended up using what I learnt from Tom's code to help me achieve the same effect with the new code I was using. Once I got this to work I individually added each function back into the code so that it would work cohesively. This took a lot of patience as I found at each step I had to fix the order or put things into different functions to get them to work. 
I also found the sound mechanic difficult to grasp where the sound was intended to play when the user navigates their mouse within the co-ordinates of the circles. I understood the 'if' statement I needed to write from my previous understanding of this aspect of code which was succesful in making the sound play. However, instead of playing my intended leaf rustle it played an unpleasant buzzing sound which I understood to be due to the draw funtion continously looping the sound ontop ofitself. In order to attempt to rectify this I used The Coding Trains video on adding sound to try and add ' playMode 'restart'' in hopes that the sound would fix itself but this still didnt work. I then tried adding function playSound but this did also not work. If I had more time I would have like to look at this issue further. 


With all this considered, I have mentioned that my artwork did not appear the way I intended it to but overall I am happy with my progress as it took me a lot of time to get to this point and I did learn a lot about different functions and ways in which I can improve this in the future. 
